## notes on System's *biology*

```text
Over the past thirty years, a new systemic conception of life has emerged at the
forefront of science. New emphasis has been given to complexity, networks, and
patterns of organisation leading to a novel kind of ‘systemic’ thinking. This volume
integrates the ideas, models, and theories underlying the systems view of life into a
single coherent framework. Taking a broad sweep through history and across scientific
disciplines, the authors examine the appearance of key concepts such as autopoiesis,
dissipative structures, social networks, and a systemic understanding of evolution.
The implications of the systems view of life for health care, management, and our
global ecological and economic crises are also discussed. Written primarily for
undergraduates, it is also essential reading for graduate students and researchers
interested in understanding the new systemic conception of life and its implications
for a broad range of professions – from economics and politics to medicine, psychology and law.

“The Systems View of Life: A Unifying Vision gives us a sound synthesis of the best
science and theory on the connectedness of all living things, the dynamics of emergence
and self-organization as conceived by Francisco Varela. This volume offers a profound
framework for understanding our place on the planet, for better or worse. And if we
apply the insights offered by Capra and Luisi, it will be for the better. The Systems
View of Life should be required reading for today’s young, tomorrow’s leaders, and
anyone who cares about life on this planet.”
~ Daniel Goleman, author of Emotional Intelligence and Ecological Intelligence

“Partly an enjoyable survey of exciting new developments in systems biology, valuable
to any student of biology or science, and partly a bold blueprint for how we might
preserve our future on Earth.”
~ New Scientist
```
